MOLT Fetch failback mode (#18990)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/molt/molt-fetch.md

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
--mode failback
~~~

When running `molt fetch --mode failback`, `--source` is the CockroachDB connection string and `--target` is the connection string of the database from which you migrated. `--table-filter` specifies the tables to watch for change events. For example:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
--source 'postgresql://{username}:{password}@{host}:{port}/{database}'
--target 'mysql://{username}:{password}@{protocol}({host}:{port})/{database}'
--table-filter 'employees, payments'
~~~

`failback` mode creates a [CockroachDB changefeed]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) and sets up a [webhook sink]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/changefeed-sinks.md %}#webhook-sink) to pass change events from CockroachDB to the failback target.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
If there is already a running CockroachDB changefeed with the same webhook sink URL (excluding query parameters) and [watched rows]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/changefeed-sinks.md %}), the existing changefeed is used for `failback`.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> By default, `failback` uses an insecure configuration for the CockroachDB changefeed. The [default configuration](#default-insecure-changefeed) is suited for testing only. In production, you should override the default changefeed settings with a **secure** configuration. To override the default changefeed settings, create a JSON file and include the [`--changefeeds-path` flag](#global-flags) to indicate the file path. For example:

Reviewer: Hmm I think the wrong ordering here. I think we should say: here is what you need in order to do a secure failback mode. If you need to override that, use `allow-tls-mode-disable` and that lets you use the default configuration, which is simpler and insecure

	- `sink_query_parameters`: A comma-separated list of [`CREATE CHANGEFEED` query parameters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#query-parameters). This includes the base64-encoded client certificate ([`client_cert`]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#client-cert)), key ([`client_key`]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#client-key)), and CA ([`ca_cert`]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#ca-cert)) for a secure webhook sink.
- The following [`CREATE CHANGEFEED` options]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#options):
	- [`resolved`]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#resolved)
	- [`min_checkpoint_frequency`]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#min-checkpoint-frequency)
	- [`initial_scan`]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#initial-scan)
	- [`webhook_sink_config`]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#webhook-sink-config)  

> To secure the changefeed connection, define `sink_query_parameters` in the JSON as follows:

Reviewer: Yeah, I think this should be moved up above the insecure. Insecure should be noted but shouldn't be the focal point. We should show them examples of how to do secure first and mention: if you know what you're doing and need to run insecure and with default configs, here is what you need to do.

Author: Done. Let me know if it's still not what you're looking for.

Reviewer: Excellent. This is exactly what I wanted. One minor note here is maybe we should emphasize that insecure configurations are not recommended and to run in secure mode wherever possible. Like explicitly bold it so it's clear and that they take on any risk for insecure modes.

`import-only` instructs MOLT Fetch to load the source data in the specified [cloud storage](#cloud-storage) or [local file server](#local-file-server) into the CockroachDB target.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
--mode import-only
~~~

> #### Fail back to source database

Reviewer: Nit: are we using "fail back" or "failback" as two or one word(s) respectively?

Reviewer: Thanks, yes that makes sense.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> `failback` mode supports MySQL 8.0 and later.

Reviewer: Super nit: "mode only supports MySQL 8.0". Although with pending work this may change. So keep an eye out for 5.7 support that we're working on. We'll keep you posted.

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> If you encounter issues after moving data to CockroachDB, you can use `failback` to replicate changes on CockroachDB back to the initial source database. In case you need to roll back the migration, this ensures that data is consistent on the source.

Reviewer: @rohan-joshi this is not the only case where customers fail back right? Sometimes, folks want to write data back just as a backup or if they want to keep their original DB up to date just in case right? Not only during failures.

Reviewer 2: Sometimes, folks want to write data back just as a backup or if they want to keep their original DB up to date just in case right?  -> I don't see that as a use case.

I think the primary use case that ryan highlighted is correct

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
--mode failback
~~~

When running `molt fetch --mode failback`, `--source` is the CockroachDB connection string and `--target` is the connection string of the database from which you migrated. `--table-filter` specifies the tables to watch for change events. For example:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
--source 'postgresql://{username}:{password}@{host}:{port}/{database}'
--target 'mysql://{username}:{password}@{protocol}({host}:{port})/{database}'
--table-filter 'employees, payments'
~~~

> `failback` mode creates a [CockroachDB changefeed]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) that passes change events from CockroachDB to a [webhook sink]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/changefeed-sinks.md %}#webhook-sink). However, if there is already a running CockroachDB changefeed with the same webhook sink URL (excluding query parameters) and [watched rows]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/changefeed-sinks.md %}), the existing changefeed is used for `failback`.

Reviewer: Hmm would it be worth noting that we are also bringing up the webhook sink for them? It's transparent to them since replicator is that webhook sink. I think this wording may be confusing since they may wonder if they need to bring up their own webhook sink

Author: Done.

> `failback` mode creates a [CockroachDB changefeed]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) that passes change events from CockroachDB to a [webhook sink]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/changefeed-sinks.md %}#webhook-sink). However, if there is already a running CockroachDB changefeed with the same webhook sink URL (excluding query parameters) and [watched rows]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/changefeed-sinks.md %}), the existing changefeed is used for `failback`.

Reviewer: Also it's not "watched rows", it's "watched tables". We match on same tables + same URL

Author: I'm using our CDC term "watched rows" which seems to mean the same thing. The rows being watched are the ones in the specified table names. See: https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/change-data-capture-overview

Do you think this is too confusing? I assumed it was a standard CDC term.

Reviewer 2: should be "watched tables".
i've separately created a ticket to change that line in the cdc docs to 'watched tables' as well/

When creating a new `failback` changefeed, MOLT Fetch specifies the following [`CREATE CHANGEFEED` parameters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#parameters):

~~~ json
{
    "host": "localhost",
    "port": 30004,
    "sink_query_parameters": "insecure_tls_skip_verify=true",
    "resolved": "1s",
    "min_checkpoint_frequency": "1s",
    "initial_scan": "no",
    "webhook_sink_config": "{\"Flush\":{\"Bytes\":1048576}}"
}
~~~

> By default, MOLT Fetch specifies a local webhook sink (`"localhost"`) and an insecure sink connection (`"insecure_tls_skip_verify=true"`). This configuration is best suited for testing. A **secure sink connection is recommended** for production environments. For an example, see [Fail back securely from CockroachDB](#fail-back-securely-from-cockroachdb).

Reviewer: @rohan-joshi @taroface @Jeremyyang920 there is a part of me wondering if we should make this secure by default and allow `--allow-tls-mode-disable` to dictate if we do this local setup or not. 

However, this means the defaults we set won't work unless you have this flag set. It's not as great a UX, but it is a secure default which seems to be important to note. Thoughts?

Author: I'm not the decider here, but it did feel counterintuitive to explain in docs that the default shouldn't be used in production.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ json
{
    "sink_query_parameters": "client_cert={base64 cert}&client_key={base64 key}&ca_cert={base64 CA cert}"
}
~~~

`client_cert`, `client_key`, and `ca_cert` are [webhook sink parameters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/changefeed-sinks.md %}#webhook-parameters) that must be base64- and URL-encoded (for example, `base64 -i ./client.crt | jq -R -r '@uri'`).

In the `molt fetch` command, also include [`--replicator-flags`](#global-flags) to specify the paths to the server certificate and key that correspond to the client certs defined in `sink_query_parameters`. For example:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
--changefeeds-path 'changefeed-secure.json'
--replicator-flags "--tlsCertificate ./certs/server.crt --tlsPrivateKey ./certs/server.key"
~~~

For a complete example of using `molt fetch` in `failback` mode, see [Fail back securely from CockroachDB](#fail-back-securely-from-cockroachdb).

##### Default insecure changefeed

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

> Insecure configurations are **not** recommended. In production, run failback with a secure changefeed connection. For details, see [Changefeed override settings](#changefeed-override-settings).

Reviewer: Looks great to me now!

`import-only` instructs MOLT Fetch to load the source data in the specified [cloud storage](#cloud-storage) or [local file server](#local-file-server) into the CockroachDB target.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
--mode import-only
~~~

#### Fail back to source database

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

> Before using `failback` mode, refer to the [technical advisory]({% link advisories/a123371.md %}) about a bug that affects changefeeds on certain CockroachDB versions.

Reviewer: @taroface I think we want to be more explicit here and mention versions that they are recommended to run failback with. They are the versions that are specified here: https://cockroachlabs.atlassian.net/browse/CC-30305

This is not going to change, so it is find to just document this inline so they can refer to the docs if they want more details, but we tell them up front which versions they should use.

Author: OK, added the versions.

> Before using `failback` mode, refer to the [technical advisory]({% link advisories/a123371.md %}) about a bug that affects changefeeds on CockroachDB v22.2, v23.1.0 to v23.1.21, v23.2.0 to v23.2.5, and testing versions of v24.1 through v24.1.0-rc.1.

Reviewer: @Jeremyyang920 FYI here

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
--mode failback
--changefeeds-path 'changefeed-settings.json'
~~~

When running `molt fetch --mode failback`, `--source` is the CockroachDB connection string and `--target` is the connection string of the database you migrated from. `--table-filter` specifies the tables to watch for change events. For example:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
--source 'postgresql://{username}:{password}@{host}:{port}/{database}'
--target 'mysql://{username}:{password}@{protocol}({host}:{port})/{database}'
--table-filter 'employees, payments'
~~~

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
MySQL 8.0 and later are supported as MySQL failback targets.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

##### Changefeed override settings

You can specify the following [`CREATE CHANGEFEED` parameters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#parameters) in the override JSON. If any parameter is not specified, its [default value](#default-insecure-changefeed) is used.

> - The following [`CREATE CHANGEFEED` URI parameters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#sink-uri):

Reviewer 3: Nit:
```suggestion
- The following [`CREATE CHANGEFEED` Sink URI parameters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#sink-uri):
```

	- [`resolved`]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#resolved)
	- [`min_checkpoint_frequency`]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#min-checkpoint-frequency)
	- [`initial_scan`]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#initial-scan)
	- [`webhook_sink_config`]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#webhook-sink-config)  

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
If there is already a running CockroachDB changefeed with the same webhook sink URL (excluding query parameters) and [watched tables]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/changefeed-sinks.md %}), the existing changefeed is used for `failback`.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

**Use a secure changefeed connection whenever possible.** The [default insecure configuration](#default-insecure-changefeed) is **not** recommended in production. To secure the changefeed connection, define `sink_query_parameters` in the JSON as follows:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ json
{
    "sink_query_parameters": "client_cert={base64 cert}&client_key={base64 key}&ca_cert={base64 CA cert}"
}
~~~

> `client_cert`, `client_key`, and `ca_cert` are [webhook sink parameters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/changefeed-sinks.md %}#webhook-parameters) that must be base64- and URL-encoded (for example, `base64 -i ./client.crt | jq -R -r '@uri'`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`client_cert`, `client_key`, and `ca_cert` are [webhook sink parameters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/changefeed-sinks.md %}#webhook-parameters) that must be base64- and URL-encoded (for example, use the command `base64 -i ./client.crt | jq -R -r '@uri'`).
```

Insecure configurations are **not** recommended. In production, run failback with a secure changefeed connection. For details, see [Changefeed override settings](#changefeed-override-settings).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

When `molt fetch --mode failback` is run without specifying `--changefeeds-path`, the following [`CREATE CHANGEFEED` parameters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}#parameters) are used for the changefeed:

~~~ json
{
    "host": "localhost",
    "port": 30004,
    "sink_query_parameters": "insecure_tls_skip_verify=true",
    "resolved": "1s",
    "min_checkpoint_frequency": "1s",
    "initial_scan": "no",
    "webhook_sink_config": "{\"Flush\":{\"Bytes\":1048576}}"
}
~~~

The default parameters specify a local webhook sink (`"localhost"`) and an insecure sink connection (`"insecure_tls_skip_verify=true"`), which are suited for testing only. In order to run `failback` with the default insecure configuration, you must also include the following flags:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
--allow-tls-mode-disable
--replicator-flags '--tlsSelfSigned --disableAuthentication'
~~~

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> If both `--changefeeds-path` and `--allow-tls-mode-disable` are not specified in `failback` mode, `molt fetch` will error. At least one of these flags is required. `--changefeeds-path` overrides the default changefeed configuration. `--allow-tls-mode-disable` enables the use of the default changefeed configuration, which is insecure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Either
- `--changefeeds-path` which overrides the default changefeed configuration, or
- `--allow-tls-mode-disable` which enables the use of the default insecure changefeed configuration
must be specified in `failback` mode, otherwise `molt fetch` will error.
```

Author: Adapted this to be clearer. I'm not a fan of placing bullet points in the middle of a sentence as this doesn't look entirely right to me. Instead, I wrote it into a full sentence without bullet points.

	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

- `--changefeeds-path` specifies the path to `changefeed-settings.json`, which contains the following setting override:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ json
	{
	    "sink_query_parameters": "client_cert={base64 cert}&client_key={base64 key}&ca_cert={base64 CA cert}"
	}
	~~~

	`client_cert`, `client_key`, and `ca_cert` are [webhook sink parameters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/changefeed-sinks.md %}#webhook-parameters) that must be base64- and URL-encoded (for example, `base64 -i ./client.crt | jq -R -r '@uri'`).

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
	For details on the default changefeed settings and how to override them, see [Fail back to source database](#fail-back-to-source-database).
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

The preceding `molt fetch` command issues the equivalent [`CREATE CHANGEFEED`]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}) command, using the default and explicitly overriden changefeed settings:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE CHANGEFEED FOR TABLE employees, payments 

>   INTO 'webhook-https://host.docker.internal:30004/defaultdb/public?client_cert={base64 cert}&client_key={base64 key}&ca_cert={base64 CA cert}' 

Reviewer: "host.docker.internal" is for our local testing. For a customer running locally without docker, I think `host.docker.internal` should be `localhost`. This should make it simpler.

The following `molt fetch` command uses [`failback` mode](#fail-back-to-source-database) to securely replicate changes from CockroachDB back to a MySQL database. This assumes that you migrated data from MySQL to CockroachDB, and want to keep the data consistent on MySQL in case you need to roll back the migration.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
molt fetch \
--source 'postgres://root@localhost:26257/defaultdb?sslmode=verify-full' \
--target 'mysql://root:password@localhost/molt?sslcert=.%2fsource_certs%2fclient.root.crt&sslkey=.%2fsource_certs%2fclient.root.key&sslmode=verify-full&sslrootcert=.%2fsource_certs%2fca.crt' \
--table-filter 'employees, payments' \
--non-interactive \
--logging debug \
--replicator-flags "--tlsCertificate ./certs/server.crt --tlsPrivateKey ./certs/server.key" \
--mode failback \
--changefeeds-path 'changefeed-secure.json'
~~~

- `--source` specifies the connection string of the CockroachDB database to which you migrated.
- `--target` specifies the connection string of the MySQL database acting as the failback target.
- `--table-filter` specifies that the `employees` and `payments` tables should be watched for change events.

> - `--replicator-flags` specifies the paths to the server certificate (`--tlsCertificate`) and key (`--tlsPrivateKey`) that correspond to the client certs defined by `sink_query_parameters` in the changefeed override JSON.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `--replicator-flags` specifies the paths to the server certificate (`--tlsCertificate`) and key (`--tlsPrivateKey`) that correspond to the client certs defined by `sink_query_parameters` in the changefeed override JSON file.
```

- `--changefeeds-path` specifies the path to `changefeed-secure.json`, which contains the following setting override:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ json
	{
	    "sink_query_parameters": "client_cert={base64 cert}&client_key={base64 key}&ca_cert={base64 CA cert}"
	}
	~~~

> 	`client_cert`, `client_key`, and `ca_cert` are [webhook sink parameters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/changefeed-sinks.md %}#webhook-parameters) that must be base64- and URL-encoded (for example, `base64 -i ./client.crt | jq -R -r '@uri'`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	`client_cert`, `client_key`, and `ca_cert` are [webhook sink parameters]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/changefeed-sinks.md %}#webhook-parameters) that must be base64- and URL-encoded (for example, use the command `base64 -i ./client.crt | jq -R -r '@uri'`).
```

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
	For details on the default changefeed settings and how to override them, see [Changefeed override settings](#changefeed-override-settings).
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

The preceding `molt fetch` command issues the equivalent [`CREATE CHANGEFEED`]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/create-changefeed.md %}) command, using the default and explicitly overriden changefeed settings:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE CHANGEFEED FOR TABLE employees, payments 
  INTO 'webhook-https://localhost:30004/defaultdb/public?client_cert={base64 cert}&client_key={base64 key}&ca_cert={base64 CA cert}' 
  WITH updated, resolved = '1s', min_checkpoint_frequency = '1s', initial_scan = 'no', cursor = '2024-09-11T16:33:35Z', webhook_sink_config = '{\"Flush\":{\"Bytes\":1048576,\"Frequency\":\"1s\"}}'
~~~

> This results in initial output like the following:

Reviewer 3: This may be redundant, but for clarity:
```suggestion
Running the preceding `molt fetch` command or the equivalent `CREATE CHANGEFEED` command results in initial output like the following:
```

Author: I don't want to suggest manually running that changefeed command, so I slightly reworded.
